# Coursera-Capstone-BattleofNeighborhoods1

## Introduction
On the mist of the new COVID pandemic, understanding of its effects on different communities and its spread mechanisms is essential for planning and strategy development. One of the main difficulties of the task is to explicitly define the relevant variables and parameters to inspect, as a lot of different factors are at play and we do not exactly understand their influence. The following study, although modest, pretends to explore the spread of the disease on different communities hoping to find patterns or clues regarding its behaviour. While the most natural assumption would be that the majority of the infections occur on densely populated areas, we want to assess the nature of the neighborhoods instead, trying to conclude whether the dominant presence of social hubs, comercial districts or open areas conveys a significant difference in numbers. 

## Data
We will study data from two cities, New York in USA and Toronto in Canada. We will extend the analysis of Manhattan from the course to the rest of the city and compare the results with the ones from Toronto. More explicitly this means to identify the neighborhoods and boroughs of both cities from an external database and by accesing Foursquare, obtain information of the venues of each, so we can later find similar zones by clustering algorithms. At this point we will assess differences and similairites between both cities. Later, using open access data from the respective Health Institutions of both target cities, we will try to relate the incidence of COVID and possible death rate with the neighborhood clusters. Finally, we will compare the results on both financial capitals. 
